



IP Performance Measurement                                     N. Elkins
Internet-Draft                                     Inside Products, Inc.
Intended status: Informational                              M. Ackermann
Expires: 30 August 2023                                    BCBS Michigan
                                                            A. Deshpande
                                                   NITK Surathkal/Google
                                                            T. Pecorella
                                                  University of Florence
                                                               A. Rashid
                                                     Politecnico di Bari
                                                        26 February 2023


 IPv6 Performance and Diagnostic Metrics Version 2 (PDMv2) Destination
                                 Option
                 draft-ietf-ippm-encrypted-pdmv2-latest

Abstract

   RFC8250 describes an optional Destination Option (DO) header embedded
   in each packet to provide sequence numbers and timing information as
   a basis for measurements.  As this data is sent in clear- text, this
   may create an opportunity for malicious actors to get information for
   subsequent attacks.  This document defines PDMv2 which has a
   lightweight handshake (registration procedure) and encryption to
   secure this data.  Additional performance metrics which may be of use
   are also defined.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://ameyand.github.io/PDMv2/draft-elkins-ippm-encrypted-
   pdmv2.html.  Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-ippm-encrypted-pdmv2/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the IP Performance
   Measurement Working Group mailing list (mailto:ippm@ietf.org), which
   is archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/ippm/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/ippm/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ameyand/PDMv2.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 30 August 2023.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Current Performance and Diagnostic Metrics (PDM)
     1.2.  PDMv2 Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Terminology
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Current Performance and Diagnostic Metrics (PDM)

   The current PDM is an IPv6 Destination Options header which provides
   information based on the metrics like Round-trip delay and Server
   delay.  This information helps to measure the Quality of Service
   (QoS) and to assist in diagnostics.  However, there are potential
   risks involved transmitting PDM data during a diagnostics session.

   PDM metrics can help an attacker understand about the type of machine
   and its processing capabilities.  Inferring from the PDM data, the
   attack can launch a timing attack.  For example, if a cryptographic
   protocol is used, a timing attack may be launched against the keying
   material to obtain the secret.

   Along with this, PDM does not provide integrity.  It is possible for
   a Man-In-The-Middle (MITM) node to modify PDM headers leading to
   incorrect conclusions.  For example, during the debugging process
   using PDM header, it can mislead the person showing there are no
   unusual server delays.

1.2.  PDMv2 Introduction

   PDMv2 introduces confidential, integrity and authentication.

   TBD

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Terminology

   *  Primary (Writer) Client (WC): An authoritative node that creates
      cryptographic keys for multiple reader clients.

   *  Primary (Writer) Server (WS): An authoritative node that creates
      cryptographic keys for multiple reader servers.

   *  Secondary (Reader) Client (RC): An endpoint node which initiates a
      session with a listening port and sends PDM data.  Connects to the
      Primary (Writer) Client to get cryptographic key material.

   *  Secondary (Reader) Server (RS): An endpoint node which has a
      listening port and sends PDM data.  Connects to the Primary
      (Writer) Server to get cryptographic key material.

   Note: a client may act as a server (have listening ports).

   *  Symmetric Key (K): A uniformly random bitstring as an input to the
      encryption algorithm, known only to Secondary (Reader) Clients and
      Secondary (Reader) Servers, to establish a secure communication.

   *  Public and Private Keys: A pair of keys that is used in asymmetric
      cryptography.  If one is used for encryption, the other is used
      for decryption.  Private Keys are kept hidden by the source of the
      key pair generator, but Public Key is known to everyone.  pkX
      (Public Key) and skX (Private Key).  Where X can be, any client or
      any server.

   *  Pre-shared Key (PSK): A symmetric key.  Uniformly random
      bitstring, shared between any client or any server or a key shared
      between an entity that forms client-server relationship.  This
      could happen through an out-of band mechanism: e.g., a physical
      meeting or use of another protocol.

   *  Session Key: A temporary key which acts as a symmetric key for the
      whole session.

4.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

5.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Nalini Elkins
   Inside Products, Inc.
   Email: nalini.elkins@insidethestack.com


   Michael Ackermann
   BCBS Michigan
   Email: mackermann@bcbsm.com


   Ameya Deshpande
   NITK Surathkal/Google
   Email: ameyanrd@gmail.com


   Tommaso Pecorella
   University of Florence
   Email: tommaso.pecorella@unifi.it


   Adnan Rashid
   Politecnico di Bari
   Email: adnan.rashid@poliba.it
